
# For loop
* List - enumerate(list)
* Dictionary - .items()
* Numpy array - np.nditer(array)
* DataFrame - .iterrows()

# Loop over List
Using a for loop to iterate over a list only gives you access to every list element in each run, one after the other. If you also want to access the index information, so where the list element you're iterating over is located, you can use **enumerate()**.

```python
fam = [1.73, 1.68, 1.71, 1.89]
for index, height in enumerate(fam) :
    print("person " + str(index) + ": " + str(height))
```

# Loop over Dictionary
In Python 3, you need the **items()** method to loop over a dictionary:
```python
world = { "afghanistan":30.55, 
          "albania":2.77,
          "algeria":39.21 }

for key, value in world.items() :
    print(key + " -- " + str(value))
 ```
 
 # Loop over Numpy array
If you're dealing with a 1D Numpy array, looping over all elements can be as simple as:

```python
for x in my_array :
    ...
```
If you're dealing with a 2D Numpy array, it's more complicated. A 2D array is built up of multiple 1D arrays. To explicitly iterate over all separate elements of a multi-dimensional array, you'll need this syntax:

```python
for x in np.nditer(my_array) :
    ...
```
# Loop over DataFrame (1)
Iterating over a Pandas DataFrame is typically done with the **iterrows()** method. Used in a for loop, every observation is iterated over and on every iteration the row label and actual row contents are available:

```python
for lab, row in brics.iterrows() :
    ...
```

# Loop over DataFrame (2)
The row data that's generated by **iterrows() on every run is a Pandas Series**. This format is not very convenient to print out. Luckily, you can easily select variables from the Pandas Series using square brackets:

```python
for lab, row in brics.iterrows() :
    print(row['country'])
```

# Add column (1)

```python
for lab, row in brics.iterrows() :
    brics.loc[lab, "name_length"] = len(row["country"])
```

# Add column (2)
Using **iterrows()** to iterate over every observation of a Pandas DataFrame is easy to understand, but not very efficient. On every iteration, you're creating a new Pandas Series.

If you want to add a column to a DataFrame by calling a function on another column, the **iterrows()** method in combination with a for loop is not the preferred way to go. Instead, you'll want to use **apply()**.

Compare the **iterrows()** version with the **apply()** version to get the same result in the brics DataFrame:

```python
for lab, row in brics.iterrows() :
    brics.loc[lab, "name_length"] = len(row["country"])

brics["name_length"] = brics["country"].apply(len)
```
